Add episode 4 kanban (#28)
escience-academy/lesson-agile-escience: _episodes/04-kanban-intro.md

---
title: "Introduction to Kanban"
teaching: 5
exercises: 60
questions:
- "What is Kanban?"
- "What is a Kanban board?"
- "Can we combine Scrum and Kanban?"
objectives:
- "Describe the Kanban method"
- "Understand how to use a Kanban board"
keypoints:
- "Kanban consists of cards, columns, and continuous improvement."
- "Main elements of continuous improvements: Commitment point, Work In Progress
  (WIP) Limits, and Delivery point."
---

## What is Kanban?

> Kanban is a process managemnet method. It balances demands with available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kanban is a process management method. It balances demands with available
```

is pulled to the process as capacity permits. We will explain this in the next
section where we introduce a Kanban board. Read more about Kanban
[here](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban).

> ## Did you know...
>
> Kanban is the Japanese word for signboard or billboard.
{: .callout}

## What is a Kanban board?

A kanban board is a project management tool designed to visualize processes,
define tasks, and manage backlog-items. It helps to show/record `what`, `how`
and `who` aspects of a work-item and keep everyone on the same page. A Kanban
board uses cards, columns, and continuous improvement to help teams commit to
the right amount of work, and get it done!

Here is an example of a Kanban board created using
[GitHub project boards](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/organizing-your-work-with-project-boards):

![Kanban board](../fig/kanban_board.png)

### Cards

Team members divide the work into some work-items and write onto cards
(stickies, or tickets), usually one per card. For Agile teams, each card could
represent one user story. Once on the board, these cards help everyone
understand what the team is working on.

> Also, each card should have "acceptance criteria" (AC). AC is a set of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each card should also have "acceptance criteria" (AC). AC is a set of
```

statements that define how a user story can be completed.

> ## Who writes acceptance criteria
>
> Generally speaking, the "Product Owner" defines the product backlog, and
> acceptance criteria (AC). However, it is a good practice if team members
> contribute to writing AC.
>
{: .callout}

### Columns

Columns together show the process or workflow. Each column represents a specific
activity, for example “To Do", “In Progress”, "Done". Cards flow through the

> workflow until completion, i.e. from the left to right side of the board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
workflow until completion, i.e. from the left to the right side of the board.
```

- What if your team works on more than one project/product?

If your team works on several projects/products, you can add one row (Swim Lane)
for each of them. As an alternative, your team may decide to have a time-boxed
workflow and work on one project at a time, see the section "Combining Scrum and
Kanban (Scrumban)" in this lesson.

> > ## More examples of Kanban workflow (i.e. columns)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ## More examples of Kanban workflows (i.e. columns)
```

#### Work In Progress (WIP) limits

WIP limits are the maximum number of cards in “In Progress” column. For example,
the column with a WIP limit=3 cannot have more than three cards in it.

 - How to estimate WIP limits?

 WIP limits is an estimation of how much work the team can commit to. So, it can
   vary depending on the team capacity and can be adjusted after a few trials.

- What if the “In Progress” column is “maxed-out”?

When the "In Progress” column is “maxed-out”, the team needs to check if some
  cards can be moved forward before adding new cards. If not, the team should
  inspect the problem. Sometimes, either the WIP limits or the amount of the
  work to commit in the current workflow need to be estimated again. Also, the
  team might re-visit the acceptance criteria of a work-item.

#### Delivery point

The delivery point is the end of a kanban workflow, i.e. all cards from “To Do"
moved to "Done". The team’s goal is to move cards from the commitment point to
the delivery point as fast as possible.

> ## Other Kanban boards
>
> Have a look at the examples of Kanban workflow (mentioned above).
>
> - Which of those can be used for the projects in your team?

> > - What are the other workflow that you are implementing in your team?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - What other workflows, if any, are you implementing in your team?
```

>
{: .discussion}

> ## Designing a kanban board
>

> > Imagin that you are working on a project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Imagine that you are working on a project.
```

>
> - Let's create a Kanban board using
[GitHub project boards](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/organizing-your-work-with-project-boards).
> - Discuss the board with your colleagues.
>
{: .discussion}

## Combining Scrum and Kanban (Scrumban)

Kanban is great for processes focused on continuous delivery with changing
priorities. On the other hand, Scrum divides work into a series of time-boxed
iterations called sprints (see [episode 3](./03-scrum-into.md)).

> But maybe a combination of Scrum and Kanban (it is called "Scrumban") is what

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But maybe a combination of Scrum and Kanban (known as "Scrumban") is what
```

your team would benefit the most from.

Scrumban manifests itself in different ways depending on your team
characteristics. The team may use team meetings (like retrospective and
planning) from Scrum and a continuous workflow with WIP limits from Kanban.

> ## Discussion
>

> > Imagin that you are working with a Kanban board. One of the work-item in “In

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Imagine that you are working with a Kanban board. One of the work-items in “In
```
